# NixLib Christmas Changelog 2024
All the differences between commit `1d73ecfc2b1e938f8d649ee171f9876e8f94e9c7` and today. (For the changes between version 0.12.0 and that commit, https://github.com/Nixill/CSharp.Nixill/blob/master/CSharp.Nixill/doc/Migration/0.13.0.md )

# 0.14.0?
There isn't a version 0.14.0 because it took me several months — and I made several more changes — before I realized that it never published because the version I tagged for it didn't compile. I'm just skipping that version now.

# Base library update
The library now uses .NET 9.

# Documentation
The library's public classes and methods are fully documented!

# New Classes, Structs, and Interfaces
## `Box<T>` class (`Nixill.Collections`)
Simple wrapper around an object to allow for distinction between "an object container exists but the value is null" and "an object container does not exist".

## `BoxTriplet<T>` class (`Nixill.Collections`)
A triplet of Boxes, which may contain a box representing a lower-than-given value, a box representing the given value, and a box representing a higher-than-given value.

## `Buffer<T>` class (`Nixill.Collections`)
A queue of limited size, which pushes out the oldest items when going over capacity.

## `CatchEnumerable<T>` class (`Nixill.Objects`)
A wrapper around an `IEnumerable<T>` that absorbs exceptions thrown by the enumerable during enumeration.

## `CatchEnumerator<T>` class (`Nixill.Objects`)
A wrapper around an `IEnumerator<T>` that absorbs exceptions thrown by the enumerator during enumeration.

## `GridTransforms` static class (`Nixill.Collections`)
Contains a few prebuilt lists of transform functions for GridExtensions' `NearbyCells` and `NearbyRefs`.

## `IRecursiveDictionary` interface (`Nixill.Collections`)
Interface for a dictionary where keys are sequences.

## `IRecursiveSet` interface (`Nixill.Collections`)
Interface for a set where elements are sequences.

## `IntVector2` and `LongVector2` structs (`Nixill.Utils`)
A two-dimensional vector of ints (or longs).

## `NullParser` static class (`Nixill.Utils`)
Provides methods that try to parse strings to either nullable values or default values.

## `RecursiveDictionary` interface (`Nixill.Collections`)
Implementor of `IRecursiveDictionary`.

## `RecursiveSet` interface (`Nixill.Collections`)
Implementor of `IRecursiveSet`.

# New Extension Methods
In namespace `Nixill.Utils.Extensions` unless otherwise specified.

## ActionExtensions
- `IEnumerable<Action>.Do()`: Performs a sequence of actions, synchronously and in order.
- `IEnumerable<Action<T>>.DoOn(T)`: Performs a sequence of actions, synchronously and in order, on a given object.

## CollectionExtensions
- `ICollection<T>.Indices()`: Enumerable over all the indices of a collection.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.AddMissing(IEnumerable<(K, V)>)`: Adds all entries from a sequence where the key doesn't already exist.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.AddMissing(IEnumerable<KeyValuePair<K, V>>)`: Adds all entries from a sequence where the key doesn't already exist.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.GetOrSet(K, V)`: Gets a value from the dictionary, or adds one to the dictionary if one isn't already present.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.GetOrSet(K, Func<V>)`: Gets a value from the dictionary, or adds one to the dictionary if one isn't already present.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.SetAll(IEnumerable<(K, V)>)`: Adds all entries from a sequence.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.SetAll(IEnumerable<KeyValuePair<K, V>>)`: Adds all entries from a sequence.
- `IList<T>.TryPop(out T)`: Attempts to remove and return the first item in the list.

## DictionaryExtensions
- `IDictionary<K, V>.DivideOrSet(K, D)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.DivideOrSet(K, D, V)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.DivideOrSet(K, D, Func<V>)`: Divides a value into either the value associated with a given key or to a default value, then saves that quotient to the dictionary and returns it.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.MinusOrSet(K, S)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.MinusOrSet(K, S, V)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.MinusOrSet(K, S, Func<V>)`: Subtracts a value from either the value associated with a given key or to a default value, then saves that difference to the dictionary and returns it.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.ModuloOrSet(K, D, V)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.ModuloOrSet(K, D, Func<V>)`: Divides a value into either the value associated with a given key or to a default value, then saves that remainder to the dictionary and returns it.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.PlusOrSet(K, A)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.PlusOrSet(K, A, V)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.PlusOrSet(K, A, Func<V>)`: Adds a value to either the value associated with a given key or to a default value, then saves that sum to the dictionary and returns it.
- `IDictionary<K, V>.TimesOrSet(K, F)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.TimesOrSet(K, F, V)`, `IDictionary<K, V>.TimesOrSet(K, F, Func<V>)`: Multiplies a value into either the value associated with a given key or to a default value, then saves that product to the dictionary and returns it.

## EnumExtensions
- `Enum.GetFlags(bool)`: Gets the enum constants that make up a composite value.

## GridExtensions (`Nixill.Collections`)
- `IGrid<T>.DiagonallyAdjacentCells(IntVector2)`: Returns the value-and-reference-tuples of the cells diagonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.DiagonallyAdjacentRefs(IntVector2)`: Returns the references of the cells diagonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.EightAdjacentCells(IntVector2)`: Returns the value-and-reference-tuples of the cells orthogonally and diagonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.EightAdjacentRefs(IntVector2)`: Returns the references of the cells orthogonally and diagonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.FloodSelect(IntVector2, Func<T, IntVector2, bool>, IEnumerable<IntVector2>, IEnumerable<Func<IntVector2, IntVector2>>)`: Selects a contiguous region of cells that all meet a given condition.
- `IGrid<T>.NearbyCells(IntVector2, IEnumerable<IntVector2>, IEnumerable<Func<IntVector2, IntVector2>>, bool)`: Returns the value-and-reference tuples of the cells near a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.NearbyRefs(IntVector2, IEnumerable<IntVector2>, IEnumerable<Func<IntVector2, IntVector2>>, bool)`: Returns the references of the cells near a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.OrthogonallyAdjacentCells(IntVector2)`: Returns the value-and-reference-tuples of the cells orthogonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.OrthogonallyAdjacentRefs(IntVector2)`: Returns the references of the cells orthogonally adjacent to a given cell reference.
- `IGrid<T>.GetTransposedGrid()`: Returns a linked view of the same grid but with rows and columns swapped.

## NumericSetExtensions (`Nixill.Collections`)
Added a set of methods to get distances for values (in a navigable set; for a navigable dictionary the phrase "value in the set" becomes "key in the dictionary") near a given value.
- `LowerDistance(T)`, `FloorDistance(T)`: Returns the given value minus the next-lower(-or-equal, for `Floor`) value in the set.
- `HigherDistance(T)`, `CeilingDistance(T)`: Returns the next-higher(-or-equal, for `Ceiling`) value in the set minus the given value.
- `HigherLowerSize(T)`, `HigherFloorSize(T)`, `CeilingLowerSize(T)`, `CeilingFloorSize(T)`: Returns the next-higher(-or-equal, for `Ceiling`) value in the set minus the next-lower(-or-equal, for `Floor`) value in the set.
- `TotalSetSize()`: Returns the highest value in the set minus the lowest value in the set.

There are also `TryGet` versions of all of those methods available, which return `true` iff the needed value(s) exist and have an `out TOut` parameter for the actual result.

## SequenceExtensions
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementAtOr(Index, Func<T>)`: Returns the given element from the sequence, or a default if the sequence isn't long enough.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementAtOr(Index, T)`: Returns the given element from the sequence, or a default if the sequence isn't long enough.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementAtOr(int, Func<T>)`: Returns the given element from the sequence, or a default if the sequence isn't long enough.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementAtOr(int, T)`: Returns the given element from the sequence, or a default if the sequence isn't long enough.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementsAt(Index[])`: Returns every element in a sequence with given indices.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ElementsAt(Range)`: Returns every element in a sequence from a given range.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ExceptElementAt(Index)`: Returns every element in a sequence except the given one.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ExceptElementAt(int)`: Returns every element in a sequence except the given one.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ExceptElementAtFromEnd(int)`: Returns every element in a sequence except the given one.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ExceptElementsAt(Index[])`: Returns every element in a sequence except the given ones.
- `IEnumerable<T>.ExceptElementsAt(Range)`: Returns every element in a sequence except for those in a given range.
- `IEnumerable<T>.Middle(bool)`: Returns the middle element of a sequence, or the first of two middle elements.
- `IEnumerable<T>.Remainders()`: Returns a sequence of every item paired with the sequence of remaining items.
- `IEnumerable<TIn>.SelectAggregate(TOut, Func<TOut, TIn, TOut>)`: Aggregates all the values in a sequence, returning the aggregate value at every step in the sequence.
- `IEnumerable<TIn>.SelectAggregate(Func<TIn, TOut>, Func<TOut, TIn, TOut>)`: Aggregates all the values in a sequence, returning the aggregate value at every step in the sequence.
- `IEnumerable<T>.SelectAggregate(Func<T, T, T>)`: Aggregates all the values in a sequence, returning the aggregate value at every step in the sequence, using the first item in the sequence as the seed.
- `IEnumerable<T>.SplitBetween(Func<T, T, bool>)`: Splits a sequence into subsequences when the gap between elements satisfies a certain condition.
- `IEnumerable<T>.SplitOn(Func<T, bool>)`: Splits a sequence into subsequences over elements that satisfy a certain condition.
- `IEnumerable<TIn>.TrySelect(Func<TIn, (bool, TOut)>)`: Selects mutated elements for which a condition passes.

## SetExtensions
- `IEnumerable<T>.CombinationsDistinct(int, IEqualityComparer<T>)`: Returns distinct combinations of elements within the set.

## TextExtensions
- `IEnumerable<char>.Escape(char, IDictionary<char, string>)`: Escapes given characters from a string.
- `IEnumerable<char>.Unescape(char, IDictionary<IEnumerable<char>, char>)`: Parses escaped characters from a string.
- `IEnumerable<char>.Unescape(char, IDictionary<string, char>)`: Parses escaped characters from a string.

## TupleExtensions
- `((A, B), C).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with three elements.
- `(A, (B, C)).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with three elements.
- `(((A, B), C), D).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `((A, (B, C)), D).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `((A, B, C), D).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `((A, B), (C, D)).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `((A, B), C, D).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `(A, ((B, C), D)).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `(A, (B, (C, D))).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `(A, (B, C, D)).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `(A, (B, C), D).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `(A, B, (C, D)).Flatten()`: Flattens a tuple with four elements.
- `IEnumerable<T>.Double()`: Returns a sequence of exactly two elements as a two-element tuple.
- `IEnumerable<T>.Quadruple()`: Returns a sequence of exactly four elements as a four-element tuple.
- `IEnumerable<T>.Triple()`: Returns a sequence of exactly three elements as a three-element tuple.

## ValueExtensions
- `T.AssignTo(out T)`: Assigns a value to a variable, in-line.
- `T.ValueIfDefault(T)`: Returns a different value if the incoming value is the default for its type (such as null or zero).
- `T.ValueIfDefault(Func<T>)`: Generates and returns a different value if the incoming value is the default for its type (such as null or zero).
- `string?.ValueIfEmptyString(string)`: Returns a different string if the incoming value is null or an empty string.
- `string?.ValueIfEmptyString(Func<string>)`: Generates and returns a different string if the incoming value is null or an empty string.

# Non-extension members
## RegexTest
- Allow specification of a timeout in the test.
- Update the `TestAgainst<T>` method to have two parameters (`string` and `out Match`) and just one return type (`T`) to be usable in switch statements.

## EnumUtils
- `EnumUtils.AttributesOfFlag<TEnum, TAttribute>(TEnum)`: Attributes of the given type on the enum constants that make up a flag.

## Grids
- `Grid<T>.ctor(IntVector2, T)`, `.ctor(IntVector2, Func<T>)`, `.ctor(IntVector2, Func<IntVector2, T>)`: Constructors with IntVector2 for size.
- `Grid<T>.SizeVector`: The size of the grid as an IntVector2.
- `IGrid<T>.Flatten()`: Returns all the cells of a grid as a one-dimensional enumerable.
- `IGrid<T>.IsWithinGrid(IntVector2)`: Returns whether or not a given IntVector2 would point to a valid cell within the grid.

# Fixes and Changes
- `AVLTreeSet<T>.ContainsLower(T)`, `AVLTreeSet<T>.ContainsFloor(T)`, `AVLTreeSet<T>.ContainsCeiling(T)`, `AVLTreeSet<T>.ContainsHigher(T)`, `AVLTreeDictionary<K, V>.ContainsLower(K)`, `AVLTreeDictionary<K, V>.ContainsFloor(K)`, `AVLTreeDictionary<K, V>.ContainsCeiling(K)`, `AVLTreeDictionary<K, V>.ContainsHigher(K)`: Made slightly more efficient by stopping at the first evidence that the result is true, rather than continuing to find the exact node that would be the lower/floor/ceiling/higher node.
- `Grid<T>.IndexOf(T)`: This nearly always returned (-1, -1) because of a bad conditional. Now it's fixed.
- `IEnumerable<T>.SelectUnerrored(Func<T, TOut>)`: This would still break after (and throw) the first error. Now it's fixed and working.

# Obsoletions and Removals
## `Generator<K, V>` and all of its derivatives
Removed the `CanGenerateValue()` methods.

## `IGrid<T>` and its impelementors
To eliminate nullable grid entries, all grid constructors (except the empty) now require a filler to be specified. Methods that add a filler row are obsolete.

## `GridReference`
The GridReference class is obsoleted because a two-int GridReference is ambiguous (XY or RC), whereas an IntVector2 is always XY. It also copies a lot of `IntVector2` functionality. Some functionality that was specific to grid references (more specifically, the construction thereof) can be found in the `GridRef` class.

## `LengthList<T>`
This class was just never finished. It will probably return one day, but that day is not today.

## `NodeTriplet<T>`
Replaced with `BoxTriplet<T>`.

## `SequenceExtensions`
Removed the `ChunkWhile` methods, replacing them with either `SplitBetween` or `SplitOn` depending on usage.